# Scala.meta 1.7.0

## Cross-compilation against Scala.js

It is our great pleasure to announce that the overwhelming majority of scala.meta modules now support Scala.js!
Modules that support Scala.js include `tokenizers`, `parsers`, `quasiquotes`, `semantic`, `contrib`, and pretty-printers for `trees` and `tokens`.
The only modules that don't support Scala.js are `scalahost` and `testkit`, since those rely on the Scala compiler and file IO, respectively.
However, it is still possible to load a `scalahost` generated semantic DB in Scala.js using the `semantic` module.

We are excited to see what developer tools can be built in the browser.
Some ideas that have floated around include:

- browser extensions to reformat code on Github.
- syntax highlighting that works for multi-line interpolated strings and xml literals.
- code-search with "jump-to-definition" functionality, by loading pre-made semantic DBs using the `semantic` module.


## Parser for Scaladoc comments

`contrib` now features functionality to parse `Comment` tokens into a sequence of `DocToken` objects.
Check out [CommentExtensions.scala](https://github.com/scalameta/scalameta/blob/v1.7.0/scalameta/contrib/shared/src/main/scala/scala/meta/contrib/implicits/CommentExtensions.scala) for the parsing API and [DocToken.scala](https://github.com/scalameta/scalameta/blob/v1.7.0/scalameta/contrib/shared/src/main/scala/scala/meta/contrib/DocToken.scala) for the object model.

## Semantic API

- `scalahost` has been split into `scalahost`, a library that provides a scalac-based implementation of `Mirror`,
and `scalahost-nsc`, a compiler plugin that uses this library to emit semantic databases from within scalac.
Offline mirrors underwent a breaking change to accommodate this refactoring (see below).

- Semantic databases are no longer emitted in textual format, and are now encoded using protocol buffers.
Textual format remains an important debugging and prototyping vehicle, so prettyprinting still works like it used to in 1.6.0.

- Compiler messages, including warnings and infos, are now included in semantic databases.
This curious feature has been added in order to improve integration with scalafix.
We're looking forward to featuring more semantic information in our databases in the future!

## `contrib`

The `contrib` module introduced in 1.6.0 gained a lot of traction.
Lots of experimentation and discussion are going on in `contrib`!

- The `Extract[A, B]` typeclass has been added for convenient extraction of Stats/Mods/Annotations/Defs.
  - See the `contrib` testsuite for more example usages.
  - More use-cases for Extract are in the pipeline, follow #741 for more details.
- `structurally` and `syntactically` have been added as enrichments to `Set[Tree]`.
  - See the `contrib` testsuite for examples.
- Scaladoc parsing functionality has been added as enrichment to `Comment` (see above).

## Manual upgrade guide

Functionality:
- `Lit(x: Any)` got split into `Lit.Null(x: Null)`, `Lit.Int(x: Int)`, etc.
  This change was made to support JS/JVM-agnostic pretty-printing of `Lit.Double` and `Lit.Float`.
  Several deprecated `Lit.apply` overloads are provided for source compatibility with 1.6.0.
- In addition to `classpath` and `sourcepath`, offline mirrors now take an optional `scalahostNscPluginPath` parameter
that specifies path to the `scalahost-nsc` compiler plugin necessary for offline mirrors to operate.
Autodetection of the plugin path is now much less reliable than in 1.6.0,
and we're planning to address this in future releases (see [#782](https://github.com/scalameta/scalameta/issues/782)).
- `equal` has been renamed to `isEqual` to avoid accidentally using `equals`,
which always compiles but does the wrong thing at runtime.
- `isEqual` defaults to structual equality, so it's not longer necessary to
write `[Structurally]` in `a.isEqual[Structurally](b)`.
- `(a: Subtype).isEqual(b: Supertype)` will no longer compile, either upcast
`a: Supertype` or swap the order to `b.isEqual(a)`.

Infrastructure:
- Scala.meta macro annotations based on 1.7.0 only support paradise 3.0.0-M8.
- Scala.meta semantic API based on 1.7.0 supports Scala 2.11.8, Scala 2.11.10, Scala 2.11.11, Scala 2.12.1 and Scala 2.12.2.
  Usually, we only support two most latest Scala releases, but this time the range of supported Scala versions is much wider than usual.
  That's because the release date of 1.7.0 coincided with the release dates of the 2.11.x and 2.12.x series of Scala.
- Unlike for some of the builds in the 1.6.0 and 1.7.0 series, pre-release builds for 1.8.0
will be published in Maven format.
If you're using pre-release builds of scala.meta, check out [scalameta.org](http://scalameta.org/#Gettingstarted)
for precise instructions how to update your build definitions.

### Automatic scalafix upgrade guide

We have made available an automatic scalafix rewrite to remove deprecation warnings that were introduced in 1.7.0.
To run the scalafix rewrite, enable the sbt-scalafix plugin

```diff
+++ project/build.properties
+sbt.version=0.13.13
+++ project/plugins.sbt
+addSbtPlugin("ch.epfl.scala" % "sbt-scalafix" % "0.3.4")
+++ .scalafix.conf
+rewrites = ["https://raw.githubusercontent.com/scalacenter/scalafix/master/scalafix-core/src/main/scala/scalafix/rewrite/Scalameta17.scala"]
+++ build.sbt
+// supported Scala versions are 2.11.10, 2.11.11, 2.12.1 and 2.12.2
+scalaVersion := "2.11.11"
+libraryDependencies += "org.scalameta" %% "scalameta" % "1.7.0"
```

Then run `sbt scalafix`. The `scalafix` command by default runs in all projects,
to only scalafix in a single project
```
> set scalafixEnabled in Global := true
> clean
> projectToRunScalafix/compile
> projectToRunScalafix/test:compile (to include test sources)
> set scalafixEnabled in Global := false
```

For more details about scalafix, refer to the scalafix documentation: https://scalacenter.github.io/scalafix/

## Contributors

We would like to heartily thank everyone who has contributed to scala.meta by participating in discussions,
reporting bugs, submitting and reviewing pull requests. It is an honor to be part of our great community!

`git shortlog -sn --no-merges v1.6.0..v1.7.0` tells us that 10 people contributed to this release:
Ólafur Páll Geirsson, Eugene Burmako, David Dudson, Matthias Langer, Xavier Fernández Salas,
n4to4, Michael Pollmeier, Jentsch, Alan Johnson, Rory Graves.
