# Scalameta 1.8.0

The full list of issues and merged PRs for this release is available here: https://github.com/scalameta/scalameta/milestone/2?closed=1

## Semantic API

The Semantic API offers operations to query information from the Scala compiler
such as naming resolution (`println` => `_root_.scala.Predef.println`), inferred type
annotations, reported compiler messages and more.
A `scala.meta.Mirror` is an implementation of the Semantic API.

- `scala.meta.semantic.v1` has been promoted to `scala.meta.semantic`. This means we
  we are doubling down on our efforts to improve the symbol API. See [#609][].
- Support for runtime compilation of quasiquotes (example `t"Int".symbol`) is no
  longer supported, see [#808][]. This greatly simplifies building a `Mirror`
  in Scalameta applications, for example Scalafix.
- As a result, the standalone `semantic` module can now load the Semantic API,
  both on JVM and JS!

### Semantic DB

The Semantic DB is the storage format that powers the Semantic API.

- One `.semanticdb` file is now emitted for each `.scala` file under the
  directory `META-INF/semanticdb`.  This new file layout
  lends itself better to incremental compilation with zinc. See [#808][].
- New section "Sugars". A sugar is an inferred type parameter/annotation or implicit argument.
  Sugars are inserted by the compiler and don't appear in the original source file.
  One example use-case for of this new section is implementing a scalafix
  rewrite that inserts explicit type annotations or implicit arguments.
  In the future, we plan to introduce new sugars, including compiler-inserted
  apply methods.
- New section "Denotations". A denotation represents a symbol's meaning within
  a given context/period. A symbol, which is a lightweight wrapper of a string id,
  can potentially have multiple denotations.
  One example use-case for of this new section is implementing a scalafix
  rewrite that inserts parentheses to eliminate auto-tupling.
- File paths in the Semantic DB are now relativized to a `sourceroot`. This makes
  the Semantic DB portable, [#777][]. The sourceroot is configurable with the Scala compiler flag
  `-P:scalahost:sourceroot:/home/user/<your project>`.
- Positions of `Unused import` warnings now correspond to the enclosing `Importee.Name/Rename`,
  see [#839][]. This opens possibilities to implement a scalafix rewrite that removes unused imports.
- It's possible to configure the persistence mode for the Semantic DB with the Scala compiler flags
  - `-P:scalahost:semanticdb:fat` includes source file contents in the `.semanticdb` files (default)
  - `-P:scalahost:semanticdb:slim` excludes source file contents in the `.semanticdb` files.
    This produces smaller `.semanticdb` file sizes at the cost of more complex
    initialization of the Semantic API.
  - `-P:scalahost:semanticdb:disabled` entirely disables the scalahost compiler plugin.
  - sbt-scalahost offers a `scalametaSemanticdb := ScalametaSemanticdb.Fat/Slim/Disabled` setting key
    for this configuration option.

## I/O

- `scala.meta.io` now supports basic file I/O operations such as reading files and
  listing directories on both JVM and Node.js. This opens possibilities to publish
  scalameta-based command-line applications to npm.

## Tokenizer

- XML literal splices, that is Scala expressions inside curly braces `{}`, are now properly
  tokenized with accurate positions. This made it possible to implement a scalafix rewrite that
  migrates XML literals to use an `xml""` interpolator, see
  [#146][].

## Pretty printer

- Several pretty-printing bugs got fixed at the Scala Center Open Source Spree at flatMap(Oslo),
  see [#825][].

## Contrib

- The `Replace[A, B]` typeclass has been added for convenient replacement of Stats/Mods.
  More use-cases for `Replace` are in the pipeline, follow #741 for more details.

## Miscellanea

- We now use the spelling "Scalameta" over "scala.meta".  The "m" is always
  lower-case, never "ScalaMeta". Please try to use the same conventions in your
  text communications.  The motivation for this change was to simplify the
  spelling, which we have seen multiple variations of.  Also, it is easier to
  type "scalameta" on a mobile phone than "scala.meta".

## Contributors

We would like to heartily thank everyone who has contributed to scalameta by participating in discussions,
reporting bugs, submitting and reviewing pull requests. It is an honor to be part of our great community!

`git shortlog -sn --no-merges v1.7.0..v1.8.0` tells us that 7 people contributed to this release:

- Eugene Burmako
- Ólafur Páll Geirsson
- Allan Renucci
- David Dudson
- Øyvind Raddum Berg
- Xavier Fernández Salas
- Uma Srinivasan
- Lloyd

[#808]: https://github.com/scalameta/scalameta/issues/808
[#609]: https://github.com/scalameta/scalameta/issues/609
[#777]: https://github.com/scalameta/scalameta/issues/777
[#839]: https://github.com/scalameta/scalameta/issues/839
[#146]: https://github.com/scalameta/scalameta/pulls/146
[#825]: https://github.com/scalameta/scalameta/pulls/825
