## Versions

Artifacts published under the `org.scalameta` Maven groupId must belong to one
of the following categories:
  * "Releases", i.e. artifacts that have Maven versions that follow the `x.y.z` format,
    where `x` is called "major version", `y` is called "minor version"
    and `z` is called "patch version".
  * "Prereleases", i.e. artifacts that have Maven versions that follow the `x.y.z-suffix` format,
    where `x`, `y` and `z` are called the same as above, and `suffix` is
    an arbitrary suffix created by a human or generated by a tool.
  * All other Maven versions are prohibited.

## Major releases

"Major releases" are artifacts published as `x.0.0`:
  * An artifact must be released as `x.0.0` if and only if
    the difference between the current Scalameta code and the Scalameta code that
    has been published as `{x-1}.0.0` contains changes that don't satisfy
    [the compatibility policy](COMPATIBILITY.md).
  * Major releases require a milestone cycle:
    * At least one `x.0.0-M1` prerelease must be published
      before it is allowed to publish an `x.0.0` release.
    * At least 168 hours (7 calendar days) must pass after the last `x.0.0-suffix`
      prerelease before it is allowed to publish an `x.0.0` release.

## Minor releases

"Minor releases" are artifacts published as `x.y.0`:
  * An artifact must be released as `x.y.0` if and only if
    the difference between the current Scalameta code and the Scalameta code
    that has been published as `x.0.0` contains changes to
    [the public API](COMPATIBILITY.md#public-api)
    or [the SemanticDB schema](COMPATIBILITY.md#semanticdb-schema)
    that don't require a major release.
  * Minor releases do not require a milestone cycle and can be published
    at any time.

## Patch releases

"Patch releases" are artifacts published as `x.y.z`:
  * An artifact must be released as `x.y.z` if and only if
    the difference between the current Scalameta code and the Scalameta code
    that has been published as `x.y.0` does not contain changes to
    [the public API](COMPATIBILITY.md#public-api)
    or [the SemanticDB schema](COMPATIBILITY.md#semanticdb-schema).
  * Patch releases do not require a milestone cycle and can be published
    at any time.

## Preleases

"Prereleases" are artifacts published as `x.y.z-suffix`:
  * An artifact may be published as `x.y.z-suffix` if and only if:
      1) There exists an `x.y.z` release, and
      2) There exist neither `{x+1}.0.0`, nor `x.{y+1}.0`, nor `x.y.{z+1}` releases.
      3) `suffix` is in compliance with [semantic versioning](https://semver.org/).
      4) `suffix` does not equal `SNAPSHOT`.
  * Prereleases do not have to satisfy any [compatibility requirements](COMPATIBILITY.md).
  * Prereleases do not require a milestone cycle and can be published
    at any time.
