### Host implementor notes

Palladium provides foundational data structures for metaprogramming defined in [Trees.scala](/reflection/core/Trees.scala) along with several levels of APIs (syntactic and semantic).

While syntactic services are implemented in Palladium itself, semantic services require external implementations called hosts, because it would be unreasonable for us to, say, implement Scala's type inference or implicit resolution algorithms from scratch. In [Hosts.scala](reflection/semantic/Hosts.scala) we have encapsulated a minimalistic API surface that's required from hosts to invigorate Palladium.

Here is some preliminary documentation on the functionality expected from hosts along with certain background information about Palladium's data structures.

### Trees

Palladium trees provide comprehensive coverage of syntactic structures that comprise Scala. They are predefined in [Trees.scala](/reflection/core/Trees.scala) in the form of a sealed hierarchy, which means that hosts neither need nor can create custom subclasses of `Tree`.

Hosts are, however, required to create instances of Palladium trees to be returned from various host APIs (e.g. the `HostContext.root` entry point to the program introspection returns a `Pkg.Root` tree node or the `MacroContext.application` entry point to macro expansion that returns `Tree`), so here we will outline the guidelines that were used to design Palladium trees in order to allude to expected usage scenarios:

<!-- TODO: host-specific metadata can be mutable, and we have no way of forcing it to be immutable... -->

  1. Trees are fully immutable in the sense that they: a) don't contain any `var` fields, b) aren't supposed contain any references to anything that might be mutable. This means that after creation trees can never change and as such can be easily reasoned about and safely used in multi-threaded environments regardless of the intricacies of host implementations. In order to "modify" an existing tree, one is supposed to use either one of the `withXXX` methods (e.g. `Defn.Class.withName`) or one of the tree transformers (at the moment, tree transformer functionality isn't implemented yet).

  1. Trees strongly emphasize safety by construction in the sense that they disallow creation of syntactically invalid language constructs (e.g. it's impossible to create trees that represent classes without primary constructors or applications of types to terms). As much validation as possible is pushed to compile time via precise types of tree fields, and some leftovers whose validation was too heavyweight to encode in types are verified at runtime. For you as a host implementor this means that you'll have to be really precise in arguments that you provide to our tree creation facilities.

  1. Palladium strives for fully faithful representation of language concepts in its reflection API. Among other things, this means that our trees comprehensively describe all syntactic sugar defined by Scala spec. For instance, `(x, y)` in `val (x, y) = 2` remains `(x, y)`, not a pair of `x` and `y` split over two vals, and `List[_]` is actually represented as a type application to `Type.Placeholder`, not as a `Type.Existential`. Depending on the amount of desugarings performed by your host, this aspect of Palladium might be either trivial or extremely challenging.

  1. Palladium attempts to unify as much as possible in order to reduce the surface of the API visible to the users. This overarching design theme manifests itself in trees in two different ways:

    1. In Scala 2.10 and 2.11, reflection features three core concepts: trees (syntax), symbols (unique identifiers of definitions) and types (semantic descriptors of trees and symbols). Palladium unifies all those into just trees. Syntax is represented by trees, symbols are represented by names that are part of definition trees (this neatly expresses the fact that one shouldn't be able to refer to anonymous definitions such as, say, unnamed parameters of functions), and types are represented by their syntax. This unification means that APIs that traditionally live in symbols and types end up on corresponding tree nodes (e.g. `Type.<:<` or `Member.overrides`). Another consequence is that this saves us the redundancies of having duplications like `Method` vs `MethodSymbol`, `ExistentialTypeTree` vs `ExistentialType`, etc. Finally, there's a benefit of having syntax fully describe semantics - e.g. in Palladium there are no `MethodTypes` or `PolyTypes`, which don't intuitively map onto what the users see in their programs. For host implementors this means that certain trees (e.g. ones converted from host symbols and types) might need to cache semantic information, and we provide a dedicated API for that (to be elaborated before 11 May 2014).

    1. Again, if we look into existing reflection facilities of Scala, we'll observe that trees begin their lives naked (just syntax) and then get attributed by the typechecker (i.e. have their `var tpe: Type` and `var symbol: Symbol` fields assigned, typically in place). Semantic operations are only available for attributed trees, and there are some operations that are only available on unattributed trees, which means that the users need to be aware of the distinction. Palladium unifies these concepts, exposing semantic methods like `Type.<:<` or `Scope.members` that take care of attribution transparently from the user and providing `Tree.attrs` that can be used to ask the host for type information. As a host implementor, you will most probably want to cache the results of semantic operations used the API mentioned above. Also, in order to correctly implement attribution, for every tree you will need to track the context in which it lives using the facilities described below.

  1. Finally, trees are aware of their context. First of all, there's the `Tree.parent` method that can go up the tree structure if the given tree is a part of a bigger tree (exact mechanism of implementing that is TBD until 11 May 2014). Also, there's the notion of hygiene (not yet implemented) that postulates that trees should generally remember the lexical context of their creation site and respect that context even when they are put into parent that comes from a different context.
